---
tags: SIG Events
---

# CDF Events SIG Meeting Notes

[![hackmd-github-sync-badge](https://hackmd.io/xjK5ujQbTHSaEZjoY28b8g/badge)](https://hackmd.io/xjK5ujQbTHSaEZjoY28b8g)

This SIG meets bi-weekly on Mondays at [3pm UTC](https://time.is/3pm_in_UTC) during summer time and at [4pm UTC](https://time.is/4pm_in_UTC) during winter time). See the [CDF Public Calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_mhf0kmgedn67ihni8r129avp24@group.calendar.google.com) for zoom link and other meeting details. For older meetings please see our [playlist on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL2KXbZ9-EY9RlxWAnAjxs8Azuz11XVhkC)

The SIG was initiated as a [workstream under SIG Interoperability ]( https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability/blob/master/docs/meetings_2020.md#May-28-2020) and its first meeting was held on June 8th 2020.

Meeting notes for the workstream are managed on HackMD [here](https://hackmd.io/xjK5ujQbTHSaEZjoY28b8g), and published to GitHub [here](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-events/blob/main/docs/meetings.md).

## Future Presentations/Meetings

- Interoperability initiative together with VSMI
- New blog post, focused on CDEvents Testing events: https://cd.foundation/blog/2023/08/01/cdevents-embraces-testing-in-cd-pipelines/
- New Techstrong TV episode in The CD Pipeline, about Testing, mentioning CDEvents a lot: https://techstrong.tv/videos/cd-pipeline/advancing-testing-in-continuous-delivery-unveiling-challenges-strategies-and-the-cd-foundations-initiatives-the-cd-pipeline-ep-8
- Hacktoberfest results


## Nov 14

Canceled due to no items on the agenda


## Oct 16

Canceled due to no items on the agenda


## Oct 9

Meeting rescheduled to next week (Oct 16)


## Sep 25

Canceled due to no items on the agenda


## Sep 11

Canceled


## Aug 28

### Participants
* Emil Bäckmark, Ericsson, UTC+2
* Jalander Ramagiri, Ericsson Software Technology, UTC+1
* Adam Kenihan, Ericsson Software Technology, UTC+1
* Dave Donnelly, Ericsson Software Technology, UTC+1
* Andrew Fenner, Ericsson Software Technology, UTC+1
* Victor Lu
* Tracy Ragan, DeployHub / Ortelius, UTC-6 


### Agenda

- Action items from previous meetings

- Updates from other CDF or related groups
    - CDEvents
        - A [Dotnet SDK](https://github.com/cdevents/sdk-dotnet) is being developed

- Conferences & Meetups
    - [CD Mini Summit](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-europe/features/co-located-events/#cd-mini-summit) (co-located with [Open Source Summit Europe](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-europe/)) in Bilbao, Spain
        - Virtual attendence possible

- Visualization PoC demo - Jalander
    - Based on PoC inn sig-events repo
    - GitHub Actions event sending added
    - Next steps
        - Update to the latest current spec, merge to https://github.com/cdevents/visualisation
        - Once the connecting events is in place the PoC should be updated accordingly

- Hacktoberfest
    - Emil to create an issue and send to Tracy today!
        - https://github.com/cdevents/community/issues/35


## Aug 14

### Participants
* Emil Bäckmark, Ericsson, UTC+2
* Steve Pereira, VSMI, UTC-5

### Agenda

- VSMI Updates
    - [OSLC](https://open-services.net/) also does some standardization on VSM related data. Should we somehow relate to that?
    - Issued a survey to vendors on interoperability but have yet to receive a meaningful response


## July 3

### Participants
* Andrea Frittoli, IBM, UTC+1
* Fatih Degirmenci, CDF, UTC+2
* Steve Pereira, VSMI, UTC-5

### Agenda

- Action items from previous meetings
    - n/a

- Updates from other CDF or related groups
    - VSM Interoperability: [new monthly meeting](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=NzB2aGIydW1ubzJqdTl1cmRhcmZkMHM0cXVfMjAyMzA3MjVUMTMwMDAwWiBsaW51eGZvdW5kYXRpb24ub3JnX21oZjBrbWdlZG42N2lobmk4cjEyOWF2cDI0QGc&tmsrc=linuxfoundation.org_mhf0kmgedn67ihni8r129avp24%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL) every last Tuesday of the month, 1pm UTC
    - CNCF TAG App Delivery
        - Looking for contributors to drive a CDEvents based podtato-head version
    - OpenSSF
        - Weekly toolbelt meeting, Tue @ 4pm UTC
        - Opportunity for OpenSSF / CDEvents collaboration
    - OpenTelemetry
        - [CI/CD Semantic in OpenTelemetry](https://github.com/open-telemetry/oteps/pull/223)

- [Microcks](https://github.com/microcks) (30min) 
    - Simulating CloudEvents with [AsyncAPI](https://www.asyncapi.com/) and [Microcks](https://microcks.io/) and potential usages within CDEvents dev cycle for mocking and testing purpose.
    - Trailers: https://microcks.io/blog/simulating-cloudevents-with-asyncapi/ & https://youtu.be/_p9RyClgYhE 



## June 26

### Participants
* Andrea Frittoli, IBM, UTC+1
* Emil Bäckmark, Ericsson, UTC+2
* \<please add yourself\>

### Agenda

- Action items from previous meetings
    - (Emil) prepare SIG Events/CDEvents project info needed by TOC

- Updates from other CDF or related groups
    - TOC
        - [TOC Project representatives elections](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/tree/main/elections/2023#project-representative-elections)
            - Last day to vote is today!
    - CNCF TAG App Delivery
        - Looking for contributors to drive a CDEvents based podtato-head version
        - When to meet next? Not yet planned
        - Is Direktiv in the scope for this TAG? https://www.linkedin.com/posts/direktiv_cloud-native-landscape-activity-7076847310835486720-sjtA
    - OpenSSF
        - Tracy R has asked for contributors from OpenSSF to help with the CDEvents security events
        - Alpha-omega and Sterling toolchain groups
            - Meeting on June 6
            - Andrea participated on the Sterling toolchain meeting
        - [Meeting Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1H3Nk0PwmylLg5F7pqrIvyKzTyXAll0-f50B7DdqOh4A/edit)
            - [Security Toolbelt MVSR](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1k-0ReRSXEOIT8FRVbwNMe0BJ-QUvn-0c0hfFY-f4QzA/edit)
        - We have been requested to provide some meetups slide deck material to OpenSSF Asia. Andrea will connect back to Tracy about this.

- Eiffel Summit held in June
    - [Agenda](https://eiffel-community.github.io/summit.html)
    - [Recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLU5MfFmhN7pzm-K39EKP82NzLGvYa0WvQ)
    - Emil should provide a summary of the Eiffel Summit in a coming SIG Events meeting

- Collaboration with VSMI
    - Discussions have stalled a while. Re-launched in a [dedicated meeting tomorrow](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?eid=NHQxMGI2MWs5YjdlYTE2cnNtOGxnanRqMDQgbGludXhmb3VuZGF0aW9uLm9yZ19taGYwa21nZWRuNjdpaG5pOHIxMjlhdnAyNEBn&ctz=UTC).

- SIG Events and CDEvents meetings over the summer
    - To be held as usual. Emil is off some weeks, but Andrea will drive. Later Andrea is off and Emil will drive.
    - Exceptions to this should be communicated in Slack




## June 19

Meeting postponed one week. Next meeting on June 26


## June 5

### Participants
* Emil Bäckmark, Ericsson, UTC+2.
* Andrea Frittoli, IBM, UTC+1
* Tracy Ragan, DeployHub/Ortelius
* \<please add yourself\>

### Agenda

- Action items from previous meetings
    - (Emil) prepare SIG Events/CDEvents project info needed by TOC
    - (Andrea) Talk to Michael from Argo CD about possible collaboration
        - Done. See collaboration with ArgoCD below

- Updates from other CDF Groups
    - TOC
        - [TOC Project representatives elections](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/tree/main/elections/2023#project-representative-elections)
            - Emil nominated as representative for CDEvents
            - Voting to be performed between June 12 and 26


- Collaboration with other communities
    - OpenSSF
        - [Alpha-Omega](https://openssf.org/community/alpha-omega/) group - https://github.com/ossf/alpha-omega
        - New workgroup: [Sterling toolchain](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/151)
            - Next meeting in OpenSSF June 6, 9AM PT https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/99113620416?password=62d59368-d605-4207-a5dc-dcd60fd9352f
            - Andrea might be able to join
    - CNCF TAG App Delivery
        - Meet them again on June 7?
        - https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_o5avjlvt2cae9bq7a95emc4740@group.calendar.google.com
        - https://github.com/cncf/tag-app-delivery/issues/397
    - ArgoCD
        - RFC created https://github.com/orgs/cdevents/projects/4/views/10
        - https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/pull/13723
    - Whitepaper on Test events
        - A blog being written together with Tracy Ragan and Ole Lensmar from Kubeshop
        - CDF Online Meetup on Testing https://www.meetup.com/cd-foundation-online/events/293894216/

- Plan for CDEvents v0.4
    - [v0.4 Roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/cdevents/projects/1/views/13)
    - [all in roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/cdevents/projects/1/views/8)
    - [issues in CDEvents org not labeled with roadmap](https://github.com/issues?page=1&q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+archived%3Afalse+user%3Acdevents+-label%3Aroadmap)
        - We got through all issues in spec repo, but there might be issues in other repos that we should look potentially add to the 0.4 roadmap as well.


## May 22

### Participants
* Emil Bäckmark, Ericsson, UTC+2
* Andrea Frittoli, IBM, UTC+1
* \<please add yourself\>

### Agenda

- Action items from previous meetings
    - (Emil) prepare SIG Events/CDEvents project info needed by TOC

- Updates from other CDF Groups
    - CDEvents Workgroup
        - Lot's of good input from cdCon. See [CDEvents minutes](https://hackmd.io/2FRGlw9fTMmKN1OQUVvguA?view#May-22-2023)
    - TOC
        - No meeting recently
        - [TOC Project representatives elections](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/pull/202/files?short_path=ff37c30#diff-ff37c3064e1c5d7bef2269062e40afd924448d1df50c63cbedcd3f1af1328742)
            - Emil/Andrea to drive this for CDEvents and provide info through Slack/Email

- Interoperability initiative together with VSMI
    - Emil to reach out to Steve to see if he plans to join next SIG meeting or if we should better set up a dedicated meeting about the VSMI collaboration

- PoCs
    - Time to update the old PoC for v0.3? Use same tools?
        - https://github.com/cdevents/community/issues/18
    - Tweak it to include event aggregator to subscribe to? A.k.a. "evidence store"
        - Include Fidelity (Jamie Plower) and SAS (Brett Smith) in that proposal
        - https://github.com/cdevents/community/issues/27
    - Additional PoC with GitHub Actions and some other tool?
        - "Iteratively expanding CI/CD System", for example:
            - Initially just a GitHub Actions pipeline, with a set of consumers (e.g. deployer, visualizer, DORA calculator, raw event viewer)
            - Secondly break out the pipeline execution to a Tekton pipeline, with no change to the consumers
            - Thirdly break out test activities from Tekton pipeline to Testkube, with no change to the consumers
        - https://github.com/cdevents/community/issues/28
    - PoC for DORA metrics initialized by Andrea
        - https://github.com/afrittoli/cdevents-metrics-poc
        - https://github.com/afrittoli/cdeventer
        - https://github.com/cdevents/community/issues/29

- Collaboration with other communities
    - Argo CD
        - Andrea will talk to Michael that he met on cdCon
    - CNCF TAG App Delivery
        - Meet them again on June 7?
        - https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_o5avjlvt2cae9bq7a95emc4740@group.calendar.google.com
        - https://github.com/cncf/tag-app-delivery/issues/397



## May 8

### Participants
* Steve Pereira
* Emil Bäckmark, Ericsson, UTC+2
* \<please add yourself\>

### Agenda

- Action items from last meeting
    - (Emil) prepare SIG Events/CDEvents project info needed by TOC
    - ~~(Andrea) follow up on needed updates of the CDEvents Whitepaper~~

- Updates from other CDF Groups
    - CDEvents Workgroup
        - CDEvents v0.3 released
            - Testing events reiterated and placed in new bucket
            - Artifact signed event
    - TOC
        - Tracy Ragan is now our SIG sponsor
        - [TOC Project representatives elections](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/pull/202/files?short_path=ff37c30#diff-ff37c3064e1c5d7bef2269062e40afd924448d1df50c63cbedcd3f1af1328742)
            - CDEvents should nominate a candidate between May 22 and June 5. Whom to nominate will be decided on a coming CDEvents meeting.
            - 4 seats available (from 9 projects)

- CNCF TAG App Delivery
    - We participated on their meeting on May 3
    - CDEvents was discussed to be implemented in [Podtato-head](https://github.com/podtato-head/podtato-head)
    - Collaboration should continue. We should meet again in about a month.

- CDEvents Whitepaper for cdCon
    - To be published on cdCon this week (?)

- Who is currently using CDEvents?
    - We got this question from somewhere - don't know where
    - No one is *actually* using CDEvents in production yet

- Spinnaker implementation of CDEvents
    - What types of events should be mandatory/possible to send?
    - No such list of mandatory events exist at the moment
    - Spinnaker is free to implement support for any type of event types
    - Some should probably be implicitly sent (if configured to do so), like PipelineRun and TaskRun events, others should probably require an explicit "step" in the Spinnaker pipeline config

- Interoperability initiative together with VSMI
    - Dive deeper into the VSMI collaboration & finish reviewing VSMI deck
    - https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16-c-Kui3LKmiIc54N7f_4tebTt-zcbCnKDypksT5WRo/edit#slide=id.p
    - Where to keep all data? Some data lake will be needed
    - VSM is mostly interested in historical data, to see trends on the value in a system of work, while CDEvents is both interested in historical data (visualization, metrics, etc) AND realtime data for triggering and such
    - There is an overlap between the data for VSM and the data for CI/CD. CI/CD data is probably not a pure subset of VSM data.
    - VSM is more about inspecting how a "system of work" is evolving over time and with new/improved/changed value added to it
    - CI/CD for historical data is more about individual pipelines/workflows and their trends
    - A long discussion was held but not all documented here
    - Discussion to be continued on our next SIG meeting, if possible. Until then we could dig into Steve's presentation and also the joint Charter.


## April 24th

### Participants
* Emil Bäckmark, Ericsson, UTC+2
* Andrea Frittoli, IBM, UTC+1
* Steve Pereira, VSMC, UTC-4
* Tracy Ragan, DeployHub / Ortelius

### Agenda

- Action items from last meeting

- Updates from other CDF Groups
    - CDEvents Workgroup
        - [Releases](https://github.com/cdevents/spec/milestones)
            - v0.3 planned for late April
                - Focus on artifact signing event and improved test events
    - TOC
        - SIG sponsors being appointed
            - Tracy Ragan volunteered to sponsor SIG Events. To be brought up on TOC tomorrow.
        - TOC will probably request from each CDF SIG:
            - Roadmap
            - Quarterly updates
            - End-of-year report
            - We should describe our intended actions for the coming months/year to the TOC
                - Emil to prepare something about this for the next SIG meeting
        - [TOC Project representatives elections](https://github.com/cdfoundation/foundation/blob/main/CDF%20Election%20Process.md#project-representative-4-representatives-elections-managed-by-projects) to be started beginning of May (9 projects for 4 seats)
            - Emil to send a message on Slack/mail to invite everyone in the project to nominate a candidate for CDEvents on the TOC board.
    - CDF Outreach Committee
        - CDF Workshops to be set up
            - CDEvents could probably be showcased there eventually
            - [Planning doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-vFw5ypt3wqNUe-tQvcCxwuiBkIA5Fu8PHXLEr_9prg/edit#)
        - Next meeting this Wednesday. Andrea will try to join or follow up with them if/how we should be involved.
    - CNCF Tag App Delivery
        - Andrea and Emil will join there meeting on May 3rd
        - [Meeting link](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=NGZidjB1aWZhaDNkMHAzdHB2MHI4aW5kODVfMjAyMzA1MDNUMTUwMDAwWiBhbmRyZWEuZnJpdHRvbGlAbQ&tmsrc=andrea.frittoli%40gmail.com&scp=ALL)
        - Anyone else interested can reach out to Emil or Andrea to get the invite as well

- CDEvents Whitepaper for cdCon
    - Not yet finalized
    - Andrea to follow up with Fatih. At least the urls should be updated.

- Project meeting for CDEvents on cdCon

- Interoperability initiative together with VSMI
    - Maybe form a dedicated workgroup under SIG Events for this purpose?
        - [Working charter draft](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iX3RJ2KH4h-WM-sltfzatNtDzdMpN0T8nm4IylGhPdY/edit)
    - Meet & greet
    - Scope of the meetings to be defined
    - [Proposed charter](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iX3RJ2KH4h-WM-sltfzatNtDzdMpN0T8nm4IylGhPdY/edit)
    - Input from TOC meeting:
        - Reference architecture
            - To be clarified what level of overlap exists between VSM architecture and CDF reference architecture
            - Can be viewed from a customer value perspective, what kind of customer requirements are shared across between the two architectures
        - Interoperability is a challenge today - wiring data from the different data sources along the value stream
        - Scope is everything that produce metrics along the value stream
        - Very early stages - evaluating the architecture
        - VSMI currently running through OASIS
    - Steve presented the current VSMI Reference Architecture
        - https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16-c-Kui3LKmiIc54N7f_4tebTt-zcbCnKDypksT5WRo/edit#slide=id.p
        - We ran out of time so could not complete that walkthrough
    - We should discuss on Slack when to meet next to continue this discussion. Emil to initiate that discussion

- Next SIG meeting is conflicting with cdCon
    - It's at 8am local time Vancouver, just before cdCon starts. Emil to bring up on Slack if the meeting should be held anyway or not.


## March 27th

### Participants
* Emil Bäckmark, Ericsson, UTC+1
* Andrea Frittoli, IBM, UTC
* Jalander Ramagiri, Ericsson Software Technology, UTC

### Agenda

- Action items from last meeting

- Updates from other CDF Groups
    - CDEvents Workgroup
        - [Releases](https://github.com/cdevents/spec/milestones)
            - v0.2 released (all admin not finished yet)
                - Focus on incident events and preparations for full DORA metrics PoC
            - v0.3 planned for late April
                - Focus on connected events, supply chain security and improved test events
    - TOC
        - VSMI TC to guest TOC tomorrow
        - SIG sponsors being appointed
        - TOC will probably request from each CDF SIG:
            - Roadmap
            - Quarterly updates
            - End-of-year report
    - CDF Outreach Committee
        - CDF Workshops to be set up
            - CDEvents could probably be showcased there eventually
            - [Planning doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-vFw5ypt3wqNUe-tQvcCxwuiBkIA5Fu8PHXLEr_9prg/edit#)

- Recent/upcoming Conferences
    - [KubeCon EU](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/) April 18-21, Amsterdam - [Schedule](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/program/schedule/)
    - [Cloud-native Rejekts](https://cloud-native.rejekts.io/)
    - [cdCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon-gitopscon/) & [OSS](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/) May, Vancouver - [cdCon schedule](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon-gitopscon/program/schedule/), [OSS schedule](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/program/schedule/)
        - [CDF Projects Demo Theater](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1QUEIy54lVBYwm2DMK9dIOLowkmXZlFNz9Ivw4y57c88/edit#gid=0)
        - CDF Project meetings at cdCon?
            - See spreadsheet above. Opportunity to meet in the project. Not yet decided if we should request a slot for CDEvents or not.
    - [Raleigh devops](https://devopsdays.org/events/2023-raleigh/welcome/) - April 12th-13th

- CDEvents integration with Spinnaker
    - RFC approved
    - Implementation started

- CDEvents integration with Jenkins
    - Ongoing internally at Fidelity

- JavaSDK for CDEvents v0.2
    - Might be possible for Adam to look into
    - The Java SDK might be able to reuse some parts of the Go SDK for example-event handling and test cases. There is a component that generate the event specifiic parts of the Go SDK from schema files, and it could potentially generate parts of the Java SDK as well.
        - A first version of that code generation tool is available as a PR on the Go SDK: https://github.com/cdevents/sdk-go/pull/43/files
            - The idea is to create an event.<language>.tmpl file per SDK language
    - The Java SDK should also be properly released on GitHub for 0.2


## March 13th

### Participants
 * Emil Bäckmark, Ericsson, UTC+1
 * Jalander Ramagiri, Ericsson Software Technology, UTC
 * Evan Elms, Fidelity Investments, UTC-6

### Agenda

- Action Items From Last meeting

- Updates From other CDF Groups
    - CDEvents Workgroup
        - v0.2
            - [Release planned for March 20th](https://github.com/cdevents/spec/milestones)
            - Focus on incident events and preparations for full DORA metrics PoC
        - v0.3
            - [Release planned for late April](https://github.com/cdevents/spec/milestones) (at least before cdCon)
            - Focus on connected events and supply chain events
    - TOC
        - CDF Projects health monitoring being discussed
            - [LFX Insights for CDEvents](https://insights-v2.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/cdevents/trends)
            - [Workgroup for LFX](https://github.com/cdfoundation/wg-lfx-requirements) initiated
        - OKRs (Objectives and Key Results) [for CDF are being defined](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/issues?q=is%3Aissue+label%3Aokr)
    - SIG Supply chain
    - Other SIGs
    - Other

- Recent/upcoming Conferences
    - [KubeCon EU](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/) April 18-21, Amsterdam - [Schedule](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/program/schedule/)
    - [Cloud-native Rejekts](https://cloud-native.rejekts.io/)
    - [cdCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon-gitopscon/) & [OSS](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/) May, Vancouver - [cdCon schedule](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon-gitopscon/program/schedule/), OSS schedule to be announced tomorrow
    - [Raleigh devops](https://devopsdays.org/events/2023-raleigh/welcome/) - April 12th-13th

- CDEvents integration with Spinnaker
    - RFC awaiting approval before implementation can start



## February 27th

### Participants

* Fatih Degirmenci, CDF, UTC+1
* Emil Bäckmark, Ericsson, UTC+1
* Andrea Frittoli, IBM, UTC
* Jalander Ramagiri, Ericsson Software Technology, UTC

### Agenda

- Action Items From Last meeting

- Updates From other CDF Groups
    - CDEvents Workgroup
        - v0.2
            - Release postponed til mid March
            - Focus on incident events
        - v0.3
            - Release planned before cdCon
            - Focus on connected events and supply chain events
    - TOC
        - CDF Project presentations to the TOC are being planned
    - SIG Supply chain
        - Brett to fill us in on discussions from SIG SSC
            - Intregrations of SBOMs
                - The full SBOM is probably not relevant to include in events payload
                - SAS has such references in their system
                    - (Watch the recording for more info on that setup)
            - CVEs
                - Audit of SBOMs
                - Audit of Scan results
            - Signed Provenance
                - Proof of generation
            - Attestations
                - Proof of generation
    - Other SIGs
    - Other
        - (Tekton/Andrea) For supply chain events and properties there is an idea to relate it to how Tekton Chain handles these aspects

- [CDF Awards 2023](https://cd.foundation/cdf-community-awards/)

- Recent/upcoming Conferences
    - [KubeCon EU](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/) April 18-21, Amsterdam - [Schedule](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/program/schedule/)
    - [Cloud-native Rejekts](https://cloud-native.rejekts.io/)
    - [cdCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon-gitopscon/) & [OSS](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/) May, Vancouver - CFP closed. Schedule to be announced on March 6th
    - (Brett) [Raleigh devops](https://devopsdays.org/events/2023-raleigh/welcome/) - April 12th-13th

- Spinnaker RFC
    - No updates so far


## February 13th

### Participants

- Emil Bäckmark, Ericsson, UTC+1
- Andrea Frittoli, IBM, UTC
- Jalander Ramagiri, Ericsson Software Technology, UTC
- Bruno Lopes
- Adam Kenihan

### Agenda

- Action Items From Last meeting
    - None

- Presentations
    - Testkube - Bruno Lopes

- Updates From other CDF Groups
    - CDEvents Workgroup
        - [Incident events](https://github.com/cdevents/spec/pull/107)
        - [Connecting Events](https://hackmd.io/-Or6hobHSLWVj4duAWX7nA?view)
        - [Testing events](https://github.com/cdevents/spec/pull/105)
    - TOC
        - Robert wanted us to aim for implementing CDEvents in the other CDF projects. E.g. through GSoC initiatives.
    - SIGs
    - Other
        - User Story from Fidelity published - https://cd.foundation/blog/2023/02/07/launching-cdf-user-stories-first-up-fidelity-investments/

- CDF Awards 2023
    - Each project should decide on their Most Valuable Contributor
    - https://github.com/cdevents/community/issues/20
    - [Guidelines](https://github.com/cdfoundation/foundation/blob/main/CDF%20Awards%20Guidelines.md)
    - Timeline
        - Nominations open: Wednesday, February 8
        - Nominations close: Friday, March 3
        - Voting opens: Wednesday, March 8
        - Voting closes: Tuesday, March 28
        - Winners announced at cdCon: May 8 – 9, 2023

- Recent/upcoming Conferences
    - FOSDEM [CI/CD devroom](https://fosdem.org/2023/schedule/track/continuous_integration_and_continuous_deployment/) Feb 4-5
    - [KubeCon EU](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/) April 18-21, Amsterdam - [Schedule](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/program/schedule/)
    - [Cloud-native Rejekts](https://cloud-native.rejekts.io/)
    - [cdCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon-gitopscon/) & [OSS](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/) May, Vancouver - CFP closed

- Adam: Java SDK for CDEvents
    - Some linting errors remain
    - Will be merged soon regardless, suppressing some of those errors

- Jalander: Proposal for cdCon on general experience on integrating tools using CDEvents

- Jalander: Visualizations of CDEvents being discussed
    - Will look at Eiffel visualizations as input to this


## January 30th

### Participants

- Emil Bäckmark, Ericsson, UTC+1
- Andrea Frittoli, IBM, UTC
- Jalander Ramagiri, Ericsson Software Technology, UTC

### Agenda

- Action Items From Last meeting

- Updates From other CDF Groups
    - CDF TOC
        - [Projects benefits](https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/issues/168) document about to be written
        - Each CDF project should be invited to have a participant on TOC meetings. Emil is representing CDEvents there.
    - CDEvents Workgroup
        - [Incident events](https://github.com/cdevents/spec/pull/107)
        - [Testing events](https://github.com/cdevents/spec/pull/105)
    - SIG Interoperability
        - [Latest Techstrong TV episode in "The CD Pipeline" series](https://techstrong.tv/videos/cd-pipeline/interoperability-challenges-and-solutions-the-cd-pipeline-ep-4) is about Interoperability
        - Value Stream Mapping
            - Meeting with VSM folks on Jan 24th
            - A working group together with [VSM Interoperability](https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/tc_home.php?wg_abbrev=vsmi) is intended to be started

- Google Summer of Code
    - [Mentor organization applications](https://opensource.googleblog.com/2023/01/mentor-organization-applications-are-open-for-google-summer-of-code-2023.html) accepted until Feb 7th
    - The Jenkins community is preparing a GSoC application, based on [these ideas](https://www.jenkins.io/projects/gsoc/2023/project-ideas/)
        - Fidelity is probably interested in a CDEvents project with Jenkins
    - Other CDF projects have similar plans?

- Presentations
    - _No presentation planned today_
    - Testkube planned for next meeting

- Upcoming Conferences
    - [cdCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon-gitopscon/) May 8-9th, Vancouver - CFP closes on Feb 10th
    - [Open Source Summit NA](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/) May 10-12th, Vancouver - CFP closes on Feb 5th

- Spinnaker updates
    - Meeeting tomorrow about the PR with CDEvents

- Java SDK for CDEvents v0.1 soon to be done
    - https://github.com/cdevents/sdk-java/pull/12
    - It would be valuable to provide validation in the Java SDK to validate the generated events towards the CDEvents schemas. It's not a requirement for an SDK, but good to have. The Go SDK has something along those lines.

- Visualizations of CDEvents
    - DORA Metrics (with incident events) is probably the only ongoing initiative in this area


## January 16th

### Participants
- Emil Bäckmark, Ericsson, UTC+1
- Ole Lensmar, Kubeshop, UTC+1
- Jalander Ramagiri, Ericsson Software Technology, UTC
- Andrea Frittoli, IBM, UTC

### Agenda

- Action Items From Last meeting

- Updates From other CDF Goups
    - CDF TOC
        - New Chair - Andrea Frittoli
    - CDEvents Workgroup
        - Test events & incident events

- Presentations
    - _No presentation planned_

- Upcoming Conferences
    - [cdCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/cdcon-gitopscon/) May 8-9th, Vancouver - CFP Early Bird Jan 17th
        - CFP Closes on Feb 10th

- Events for Software Supply Chain
    - Supply Chain Levels ([SLSA](https://slsa.dev/)), [Supply Chain Maturity](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-software-supply-chain/blob/main/workstreams/scmm/README.md)
    - CDEvents Issue: [Secure Software Supply Chain Aspects](https://github.com/cdevents/spec/issues/70)

- cdevents.dev Refresh
    - Refresh is done

- CDEvents Spinnaker integration
    - A meeting to be scheduled by Spinnaker community

- Java SDK
    - Soon to be updated to CDEvents v0.1

- Request for presentations
    - Argo?
    - Flux?
    - Tekton Triggers?
    - Kubeshop/Testkube

- GSoC with CDEvents?
    - Jenkins had a GSoC with Cloudevents summer 2021. Time to revisit/renew that?
    - https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/


***Previous meeting notes can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-events/tree/main/docs)***